[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The 1950s and the 1960s
were times of massive amounts
of tests of nuclear bombs.
I mean, from 1945 to the
end of the 20th century,
there were detonations of
over 2,000 atomic and hydrogen
bombs worldwide.
It was an incredible amount.
I mean, the amount of
damage that those probably
have done to our atmosphere, I
don't know if anyone has ever
really tried to calculate that.
But a major number
of these detonations
took place in the
1950s and early 1960s.
And most of these
detonations took place
either at the Nevada Test
Site or in Central Soviet Asia
or over the Pacific Ocean.
Those are the
three major regions
where these would happen.
A lot of them were
very, very high
altitude nuclear detonations.
In 1962, the United
States had something
known as Operation
Dominic, which
was a series of very high
altitude nuclear detonations
over the Pacific
Ocean, primarily
near a place called
Johnston Atoll.
That's a tiny little island
about 500 miles southwest
of Hawaii, pretty much
in the middle of nowhere.
Now, from April to
October of 1952,
there were 36 of these high
altitude detonations that
took place, most of
them from very, very
high altitude, B-52s,
or a number of them,
sent up with missiles, either
from the ground or even
a couple of them
from submarines.
We're talking very high
altitude detonations,
more than 100,000 feet.
A few years ago, I
was fortunate to talk
to someone who was part of
Operation Dominic, a former US
Navy personnel
whose name is David.
David had many, many
years in the US Navy.
David was there for the
second to last exercise
of Operation Dominic, which
took place on October 26, 1962.
This not only involved the
very high altitude detonation
of an atomic bomb,
but the downing
of a UFO and the failed
attempt to recover it.
So David was aboard
the USS Finch.
And he's on the ship
and he's not even aware
that a missile had
been launched when
he hears on the loudspeaker,
along with all the other Navy
personnel, that they had
to get below the deck.
This was standard
procedure any time
that there was a detonation
about to take place.
So they're all below
the deck and they're all
waiting in their assigned area
when another officer comes
into the room and selects
about a dozen of the men
to come up with him.
They're all brought to the
starboard side of the ship
and they're wearing
all the gear that they
need to to protect themselves
from the virtual wall of sea
spray that's going to
be coming up at them.
And they are ordered
simply to look forward.
They're not allowed to
look to the side at all.
They're just to stand forward,
look in this one direction
and observe.
Seems very odd what's going on.
Well, David soon finds out
why they had to do that.
After a little bit
of time had passed,
the officer orders the
men to look 10 degrees
off the starboard bow.
And at that point, David
says, lo and behold,
this is what I saw.
"What appeared in
the sky, what I saw
was a huge cigar-shaped
object coming toward us
at 10 degrees and about 15 to
20 degrees off the horizon.
It looked like it was two
football fields in length.
It appeared to have some kind
of blue glow at the stern
as it was moving past
us at a moderate rate.
My judgment is that
it had to be traveling
at least 400 miles per hour.
When it reached
directly in front of us,
it picked up speed.
It just went from
there to gone."
So what's interesting
about this is
that the object was
moving horizontally
very low over the ocean.
And there might have been a
wisp of smoke attached to that.
He wasn't quite
sure, but he thought
that it might be the case.
If there was, there wasn't much.
But it was moving very, very
fast, level, over the ocean.
So that constituted the entire
observation that David had.
But at that time, he
was doing cross-training
with the ship's
radar technicians.
And so later that day he's on
duty with the radar technicians
and he finds everyone was
talking about this UFO.
They had tracked a large UFO
with a very tremendous heat
signature as well.
And the suspicion was
that the detonation
had caused this thing
to come out of the sky
and essentially
crash into the ocean.
There were several ships
en route toward it.
And the idea is that
someone was going
to try to pick this thing
up out of the ocean.
One of the things David told
me about Operation Dominic--
and he was part
of all of it-- was
that on nearly every single time
that a detonation took place,
there were bogeys that
were reported in the sky.
By bogeys, we're
talking UFOs or UAPs--
that is, unknown objects
that were there that
shouldn't have been there.
And that he said every time just
before the detonation happened,
those objects, any
objects that were there,
would just disappear.
They'd be gone.
But on one occasion,
apparently an object
did not disappear in time
because the explosion appeared
to have brought it down.
The radar technicians
pretty much
assumed this was obviously
not an attack on a UFO
since the whole thing
had been scheduled.
It's just that the object was
not able to get out of the way
soon enough.
That seemed to be
the basic problem.
So soon after this,
David is debriefed.
He's told this is a
very serious matter.
You're not supposed
to talk about this.
He's made to sign
a document stating
that he would not talk about
this for 20 years afterward.
A few years after that, David
just put the incident aside
and went about his business.
He stayed within the Navy.
And in 1976, and now
we're 14 years after,
he's stationed at
Guantanamo Bay in Cuba.
And he's at a bar
there, a Navy bar,
and he's talking to
another Navy diver
that he just happens to meet.
This is really interesting
story that he told me.
And he's basically, he's
here, the Navy diver's
right next to him, and they
begin to trade stories.
And the one guy says, well, I
got some interesting stories.
And David is like, well, I've
And it turns out that they
both had a UFO encounter.
And it turns out that this diver
had an encounter with a UFO
that he was responsible for
investigating for retrieval.
Turns out to be the
same UFO that David
had seen during Operation
Dominic on October 26, 1962.
Same event.
What the diver
told him is that he
had been part of a top
secret salvage operation
to recover a UFO.
And this was the UFO
of October 26, 1962.
So he was brought to the area.
He volunteered to
be the first went in
to basically do a
recon of the area
under the water to find
out what would be the plan
to recover this thing.
So he's got the diving bell
equipment, he's all hooked up,
he goes down there.
And he goes down
for quite a while
and doesn't see
anything until he
realizes that he's
actually standing
on this enormous object.
He actually slides off of it and
is astonished at what he sees.
It had this huge honeycomb
or spongy look to it,
almost like even a
beehive, perhaps,
with all of these
little cells in it.
It was almost somewhat
luminescent, like,
as if you could almost see
through it to some extent,
but not entirely.
In fact, at one point
he tried to touch it
and he put his hand
right through it.
He admitted to David, he was so
upset he'd lost bladder control
and he was so shaken by this
that he got pulled back up
shortly thereafter.
When he got back up to the ship,
he was barely able to talk.
He was barely able to recount
anything that he had seen.
But he got the story across
and they decided the next day
they were going to
send a follow-up
team to do further
investigation and hopefully try
to find a way to
bring this thing up.
And according to
what he had learned,
when the team went
down the following day,
that object was gone.
So whatever happened, it
was able to repair itself.
It was able to get
out of harm's way.
And the US Navy was not able
to get that particular prize.
Now that's the main part of
the Operation Dominic story.
David and this diver
struck up a real rapport,
had a definite interest
in pursuing this.
And according to
David, this diver
died shortly thereafter in some
freakish electrical accident
at the base at Guantanamo.
So that was the end of that.
David himself maintained a
very strong interest in UFOs.
It was very obvious when I
was talking with him that he
was sincere, very levelheaded.
And this just happened
to be his story.
And like a lot of
these stories that
come from military people about
UFOs, they're in a tough spot.
Being able to prove
these accounts
is not the easiest thing to do.
So when you get them,
you're in a position where
you have to decide, do I
believe this person or not.
I choose to believe his story.
They did frequently
encounter USOs--
that is, Underwater
Unknown Objects.
Just an interesting element
of being in the US Navy
out in the middle of
the ocean, these things
apparently are seen a lot.
According to David,
these objects
could really inspire
genuine fear at times.
So they would be
tracked on sonar,
which is what the
submarines would use
or Navy vessels would use to
detect underwater objects.
But they could also be seen
visually, and typically
by the luminescent glow that
you would see along the water
as they went by.
Now, look, dolphins and
whales and other sea creatures
can create these
types of effects.
But some of the luminescent glow
that these sailors were seeing
was just absolutely enormous.
No whale could be responsible
for anything this large,
according to David.
On one occasion,
there was a swell
in the ocean that
nearly capsized
the Finch, caused the captain
to fall over and break his leg.
David said, look,
in my view, most
of these, probably 3/4
of all of these cases,
were logged and recorded.
If you could get access
to those ship's logs,
you'd have a gold mine.
Without a doubt, some of the
most interesting UFO stories
you'll ever hear are
from Navy personnel.
They're out in the
middle of nowhere, out
in the middle of the water.
And it's very obvious
now that there's
a great deal of activity going
on in and around the Earth's
oceans, which, after all, 75% of
the Earth is covered by water.
I think it really
shouldn't be surprising
why there would
be these UFOs that
would be seen in
the vicinity of all
of these nuclear explosions.
I mean, when you look over
a 50-year period of time
when you've got about more
than 2,000 high altitude
detonations of the most
awe-inspiring bombs
that we've ever created,
any observing intelligence
is going to be looking at
that with a lot of interest.
And the fact that these things
happened all of these years ago
shouldn't cause us to dismiss
them as not important.
Yeah, Operation Dominic
was more than 50 years ago.
A lot of people alive now
were not alive at that time.
And you'd think,
well, who cares,
it was long ago in the past.
But there are a number of
people who were present there
who are still alive.
But also, these types of events,
it's not that they have ceased,
I just like talking about
some of these old events
because, I mean, first of
all, the folks back in 1962
were every bit as smart or
smarter than we are today.
They were very able
to keep records.
They knew what they
were dealing with.
And it's also interesting to
me because when you go back
50-plus years, when
you start talking
about highly unusual
technology, it
seems to me that it's
harder and harder when
you go back farther in
time to attribute these
to advanced contemporary
black budget technology.
You hear this in
relationship to discussions
of the so-called Tic Tac
UFO of 2004, for instance.
But what do you
do with something
that's from the
1960s or 1950s that
also has similar exotic features
and incredible performance?
It's one reason I like looking
at a lot of these old cases.
The observers were very
scientific, very methodical,
very careful.
And the phenomenon back then,
as now, was just off the charts
incredible.
And I think we really should
never lose sight of that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]